three European nations which are set to
recognize Palestine as a state on
Tuesday have condemned Israel's ongoing
attacks on Rafa the foreign Ministers of
Ireland Norway and Spain held a joint
pressor in Brussels where they spoke
about the need for a two-state solution
to the conflict while they also accused
Israel of breaching International
humanitarian law by refusing to stop its
deadly strikes on
arfa there can be no military solution
to this conflict and I repute absolutely
any group using violence or terrorism to
try and eliminate the state of Israel or
to eliminate the state of Palestine as
an idea or as a reality they will not
succeed and I condemned the violence of
yesterday the rockets that was that were
uh struck at Tel Aviv and the heus
attack on the Rafa tent refugee camp um
last evening where again innocent
children and civilians were killed um
again in violation of the uh
International court of justice and its
instructions to Israel to Cease the
bombardment of
Rafa this stresses what we have been
calling the three of us our three
countries for a long time that it's an
immediate ceasefire but the gravity is
even larger because it comes
after uh a decision taken by the
international court of justice
that once again I want to recall that
are binding and compulsory for all
parties they are for for Israel that is
calling to stop this attack on on Rafa I
think that uh this time we have to raise
our voice not only for an immediate
ceasefire but also to back international
law and the United Nation
Charter and Norway's foreign minister
urged other European countries to follow
suit in recognizing a Palestinian
State we are in this low point in
history when it comes to the Middle East
it is exactly when you need to think
about the day after uh our there's an
imperative which is to get to a
ceasefire there is another imperative
which is to radically upgrade the
humanitarian efforts but neither of
these are actually Solutions the
solutions have to be political and we
need to think about that political
solution now
that is the context in which Spain
Ireland and Norway chose to recognize we
encourage all countries to do the same
uh we know uh that a number of your
European countries are either on the way
to do so or contemplating and we hope
they will follow
suits Muhammad masri joins us now he's a
political analyst and professor of media
studies at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies sir thank you so much
for joining us again here on the set uh
let's start with um um basically I'm
very curious to know what you think
about the move by what we see now Spain
Norway um and Ireland in recognizing uh
the Palestinian State you know what type
of impact will it have on the day-to-day
lives of struggling Palestinians
specifically in Gaza and and the West
Bank well in the short term there's not
going to be any uh impact at all I think
as I said earlier uh in a previous
interview um this kind of small symbolic
Act uh can be meaningful over the long
term especially when combined with other
uh diplomatic acts but what gazin need
right now is something more uh
meaningful something more Sub sub
substantive they need calls for you know
they need the arrest warrants they need
calls for sanctions and an immediate uh
uh end to this violence I thought it was
interesting when they were talking
during the press conference they were
basically uh adopting all of the us
talking points they were talking about
normalization with Saudi Arabia which is
part of the reason why we ended up where
we ended up they were talking about the
revitalized Palestinian Authority um
which is very paradoxical right to talk
about the Palestinian Authority um which
is deeply unpopular with Palestinians
both in Gaza and the West Bank while at
the same time talking about Palestinian
self determination there's a there's a
contradiction in terms there and then
they were also talking about the
two-state solution which is a practical
impossibility given the presence of more
than 200 Israeli settlements and
outposts uh and more than 700,000
Israeli settlers all over Palestinian
land so Israel has intentionally
rendered the two-state uh solution an
impossibility and then we we sit up here
and talk about uh this Pie in the Sky
idea and you know it's not going to it's
it's just not going to happen so um that
is that is something that I was taken
back by but you know it is it a morale
boost because I mean this does fit into
the Palestinian drive for more and more
recognition from that standpoint yes and
that's why I started with I think over
time this is the kind of thing that can
that can make an impact right there's a
diplomatic tsunami to borrow the phrase
that was used by a former Israeli
Diplomat being hurled upon Israel right
now from the icj and the ICC and now you
have the Palestinian uh you recognition
of a Palestinian State you had a couple
of weeks ago at the UN General Assembly
the vote on enhanced Observer status so
there's a lot going on right now and all
of that um helps the Palestinian cause
over the long term but it's it's strange
to say the least to be talking about all
of this in the midst of a genocide right
what Palestinians need is something more
impactful more direct and more immediate
because you know especially after
witnessing these distressing scenes
overnight um it does feel like Gaza is
on a precipice right now more than ever
um I want to ask you what do you make of
the fact that we have not heard anything
from us leadership no reaction so far I
mean it is Memorial Day weekend but
still um are you surprised by the lack
of reaction I'm not surprised at all um
just as I was not surprised when the US
came out and supported Israel after
Friday's icj order uh commanding Israel
to stop
itsf Invasion um the the reality is that
the US is in lock step with with Israel
um there's really no resistance there
whatsoever what you had uh last night
was a very practical example of the
doctrine which Israel imposes from time
to time where they um it's basically a
doctrine of disproportionate Force where
they target civilians intentionally
inflict mass destruction in hopes that
the civilian population will turn
against its leadership um it's a war
crime in every sense it's a violation of
the principle of Distinction a violation
of the principle of proportionality and
if there was ever a time for the US to
speak out it would be it would be now
but but as you said they were silent all
right Muhammad thank you so much for
joining us greatly appreciate it thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer